Getting_Started_For_MAC_OS_X.md, before:

Getting Started with Golang - Mac OS X
======================================

Install Go 1.5+
---------------

Make sure you have Go 1.5 minimum (with `go version`)

Otherwise, Go to:

* http://golang.org/dl/

and download and install the .PKG package. Uninstall any previous
install

If a previous version was already installed, run:

    sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go

The GOPATH is where all your Go code will live.

Run:

    mkdir ~/go


Install Git
-----------

Go to:

* http://git-scm.com/downloads

Download and install.


Install go tools
----------------

Open a NEW terminal (with new env vars), paste this in to install
those sweet tools:

    # if in zsh, do also: export PATH=/usr/local/go/bin:$PATH
    export GOPATH=$HOME/go
    go get -u github.com/nsf/gocode/...
    go get -u github.com/abourget/godef/...
    go get -u golang.org/x/tools/cmd/...


Install Atom
------------

Atom has the best support for coding in Go, has excellent plugins and
works across platforms. Throw Sublime Text away and use Atom.

Go to:

* https://atom.io/

Download and install (it will open), and once in there:

 * In the Welcome Guide

   * Click "Install package"

     * Click "Open Installer"

   * Search "go-plus" (by joefitzgerald)

   * Install it


Setup `Git` and `bash` properly
-------------------------------

Right click on the desktop, and select "Git Bash Here"

Run

    atom ~/.profile

If you use `zsh`, tweak `~/.zshrc` instead.

This opens Atom.  Tweak your profile file to add these lines and *save* the file:

    export GOPATH=$HOME/go
    export PATH=$HOME/go/bin:$PATH
    export GO15VENDOREXPERIMENT=1

Back to `Git Bash` terminal, run:

    atom ~/.gitconfig

Edit the `~/.gitconfig` file to make sure similar lines are in there:

    [user]
	name = Your Name
	email = yourmail@example.com

Save the files, and exit.


Setup GitHub authentication
---------------------------


### Generate a new key

Run:

    cat $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

If you see `No such file or directory`, continue on, otherwise skip
this `ssh-keygen` step and go to `Register your key on GitHub`.

Still in "Git Bash", run:

    ssh-keygen

Accept the default file name (hit ENTER).  This key gives access to
all your github repos. Secure it with a password when asked.

  * This password never leaves your computer, the key shouldn't
    either, but if lost, it is encrypted with this password.


### Register your key on GitHub

Run:

    cat $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

Go to:

* https://github.com/settings/ssh

Click "Add SSH key" (at the top right of the box).

Copy the `ssh-rsa .......` in the `Key` input field. Don't fill in
`Title` (it will use the key comment).

GitHub will ask you to confirm with your GitHub password.


Check out your first project, get ready to run and build
--------------------------------------------------------

In a terminal, run:

    mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/abourget
    cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/abourget
    git clone git@github.com:abourget/getting-started-with-golang

    cd getting-started-with-golang

    go install -v
    getting-started-with-golang

Modify `main.go` in this repository and rerun `go install -v` to compile and
`getting-started-with-golang` to re-execute the program.

Commit message:

Added note about `godoc` error.

Getting_Started_For_MAC_OS_X.md, after:

Getting Started with Golang - Mac OS X
======================================

Install Go 1.5+
---------------

Make sure you have Go 1.5 minimum (with `go version`)

Otherwise, Go to:

* http://golang.org/dl/

and download and install the .PKG package. Uninstall any previous
install

If a previous version was already installed, run:

    sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go

The GOPATH is where all your Go code will live.

Run:

    mkdir ~/go


Install Git
-----------

Go to:

* http://git-scm.com/downloads

Download and install.


Install go tools
----------------

Open a NEW terminal (with new env vars), paste this in to install
those sweet tools:

    # if in zsh, do also: export PATH=/usr/local/go/bin:$PATH
    export GOPATH=$HOME/go
    go get -u github.com/nsf/gocode/...
    go get -u github.com/abourget/godef/...
    go get -u golang.org/x/tools/cmd/...

You might see an error with `godoc`. Ignore it.


Install Atom
------------

Atom has the best support for coding in Go, has excellent plugins and
works across platforms. Throw Sublime Text away and use Atom.

Go to:

* https://atom.io/

Download and install (it will open), and once in there:

 * In the Welcome Guide

   * Click "Install package"

     * Click "Open Installer"

   * Search "go-plus" (by joefitzgerald)

   * Install it


Setup `Git` and `bash` properly
-------------------------------

Right click on the desktop, and select "Git Bash Here"

Run

    atom ~/.profile

If you use `zsh`, tweak `~/.zshrc` instead.

This opens Atom.  Tweak your profile file to add these lines and *save* the file:

    export GOPATH=$HOME/go
    export PATH=$HOME/go/bin:$PATH
    export GO15VENDOREXPERIMENT=1

Back to `Git Bash` terminal, run:

    atom ~/.gitconfig

Edit the `~/.gitconfig` file to make sure similar lines are in there:

    [user]
	name = Your Name
	email = yourmail@example.com

Save the files, and exit.


Setup GitHub authentication
---------------------------


### Generate a new key

Run:

    cat $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

If you see `No such file or directory`, continue on, otherwise skip
this `ssh-keygen` step and go to `Register your key on GitHub`.

Still in "Git Bash", run:

    ssh-keygen

Accept the default file name (hit ENTER).  This key gives access to
all your github repos. Secure it with a password when asked.

  * This password never leaves your computer, the key shouldn't
    either, but if lost, it is encrypted with this password.


### Register your key on GitHub

Run:

    cat $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

Go to:

* https://github.com/settings/ssh

Click "Add SSH key" (at the top right of the box).

Copy the `ssh-rsa .......` in the `Key` input field. Don't fill in
`Title` (it will use the key comment).

GitHub will ask you to confirm with your GitHub password.


Check out your first project, get ready to run and build
--------------------------------------------------------

In a terminal, run:

    mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/abourget
    cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/abourget
    git clone git@github.com:abourget/getting-started-with-golang

    cd getting-started-with-golang

    go install -v
    getting-started-with-golang

Modify `main.go` in this repository and rerun `go install -v` to compile and
`getting-started-with-golang` to re-execute the program.
